The Cookbooks (#197)
directus/docs: cookbook/add-a-recipe.md

---
title: Add a Recipe
description: This is the recipe on how to create recipes in the Directus Cookbook.
image:
tags: []
skill_level:
directus_version:
one_click_cloud_install:
author_override:
---

# {{$frontmatter.title}}

> {{ $frontmatter.description }}

:::tip Authors: [{{$frontmatter.author}}]()

**Skill Level:** {{$frontmatter.skill_level}}\
**Directus Version:** {{$frontmatter.directus_version}}\
**Tags:** {{$frontmatter.tags.join(", ")}}

:::

## Explanation

Recipes let you show off your nifty configurations, integrations, or use-cases for Directus.

> What you're reading right now _is the recipe on how to write recipes_. It was written using the same template we use to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What you're reading right now _is the recipe for how to write recipes_. It was written using the same template we use to
```

> write all other recipes. By the end, you'll know how to develop, purpose, write, and submit your recipes to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
write all the other recipes in our cookbook. By the end, you'll know how to develop, propose, write, and submit your recipes
```

cookbook!

There are three key parts to to a recipe:

- **Explanation** — Explain what the recipe is for, in conceptual terms. In this section, you want to fully prepare your

>   readers for what they get from your recipe. The goal is that before your readers even begin the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  readers for what they will get from your recipe. The goal is that before your readers even begin the
```

>   [How To Guide](#how-to-guide) below, they should have a general idea of what the recipe is, its general steps, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  [How To Guide](#how-to-guide) below, they should have a general idea of what the recipe is, an overview of the steps involved, and
```

Reviewer: Just to avoid repetition of ```general```

>   [How To Guide](#how-to-guide) below, they should have a general idea of what the recipe is, its general steps, and

Reviewer 2: `[How To Guide](#how-to-guide)` This link seems to go nowhere yet.

  whether it might fit their needs.
- **The Recipe** — Lay out explicit steps of the recipe. You want to try to keep this section task-oriented, however
  some light explanation regarding a specific step in the recipe is okay here.
- **Final Tips** — Final thoughts, tips, warnings, possibilities, _and beyond!_ This is your chance to tie up any

>   loose-ends or answer any questions that would be harder to address in the previous two sections, when the reader isn't

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  loose-ends or answer any questions not addressed in the previous two sections. For example, concepts that are harder
```

>   100% sure about the details of your recipe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  to explain or certain details that the user might not be 100% clear about.
```

:::warning Keep it Simple

An explanation should be roughly 1-5 paragraphs. If you feel like your explanation _needs_ to be longer, you might
actually have _multiple separate recipes_, in which case you should separate them... Or you may be re-explaining things
that are in the docs, in which case you can use links.

:::

## The Recipe

:::tip Requirements

To submit recipes, you'll need to fork the docs repo. For details, see our guide on
[running locally](/contributing/running-locally.html).

:::

<!--
<video autoplay playsinline muted loop controls>
	<source src="" type="video/mp4" />
</video>
-->

### Create an Issue

> First we need to confirm your recipe is a viable candidate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Firstly, we need to confirm that your recipe is a viable and original candidate.
```

> If the cookbook were filled with dozens of recipes showing how to do the exact same thing, it would be a cumbersome

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the cookbook were filled with dozens of similar recipes showing how to do the exact same thing, it would be a cumbersome
```

> developer experience. Additionally, one's recipe might actually be an inefficient or dangerous way to handle something.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
developer experience. Additionally, a recipe might actually be an inefficient or dangerous way to handle
something.
```

To help avoid these types of issues, follow these steps before putting fingers to the keyboard.

1. Search through the Cookbooks to see if your recipe already exists.
2. Go to the docs repo and [open an issue](https://github.com/directus/docs/issues) outlining the general purpose,
   requirements, and steps required for your recipe.

> From here, a Directus Core team member will review and reply on the issue. We'll likely have questions or suggestions to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From here, a Directus Core team member will review it and reply directly on the issue. We will likely have questions or suggestions to
```

go over before we greenlight the idea. Remember, we don't want to limit recipes. We just want to avoid redundant or
dangerous solutions. If you're unsure if your recipe meets the guidelines, submit an issue anyway and we'll find out if

> its a viable recipe together.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it's a viable recipe together.
```

   documentation on [sidebars](https://vitepress.vuejs.org/guide/theme-sidebar).
5. Create your recipe as desired, following the template guidelines.
6. Open a PR on the Directus [docs repo](https://github.com/directus/docs/) and reference your issue.
7. When your PR is ready, switch from **Draft** to **Open** to signal it is ready for review. A Directus Core team
   member will look over your work, any necessary edit requests.
8. Make final edits as requested.
9. Run `pnpm run spellcheck` in your terminal and fix spelling issues or add unrecognized words to `/dictionary.txt`.
10. Tag a team member for final review when you're ready.

If everything looks good, we'll merge your recipe!

## Final Tips

A couple key points to remember when writing recipes.

### The Structure

When you're writing your recipe, remember the purpose of each section:

- **Explanation** — Tell them what the recipe is for, in conceptual terms.
- **The Recipe** — Tell them the recipe, in step-by-step detail.
- **Final Tips** — Tell them about the recipe. Expand on any possibilities, tips, or warnings.

> By structuring your recipe properly, you provide a more consistent experience for your readers. It'll also reduce the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By structuring your recipe correctly, you will provide a more consistent experience for your readers. It will also reduce the
```

> chance Directus Core team asks for edits before merging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
chances that the Directus Core team will ask for edits before merging.
```

### Redundant Recipes

> If your recipe is similar to another existing recipe, its probably in one of three categories:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your recipe is similar to another existing recipe, it's probably in one of three categories:
```

> - Its a 1:1 mapping of an existing recipe _(perhaps with different naming conventions)_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It's a 1:1 mapping of an existing recipe _(perhaps with different naming conventions)_.
```

> - Its a superset or a subset of an existing recipe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It's a superset or a subset of an existing recipe.
```

- It solves the same problem as an existing recipe, but in a different way.

In the first case, your recipe is more likely _(but not certain)_ to get rejected, however we'll still review it for

> consideration. In the other two cases, your recipe may need to be modified, but its much more likely _(but not certain)_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
consideration. In the other two cases, your recipe may need to be modified, but it's much more likely _(but not certain)_
```

to be accepted.

### Breaking the Rules

> We created this template is to provide a clear scope and style for all recipes. This makes things easier and more

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We created this template to provide a clear scope and style for all recipes. This makes things easier and more
```

consistent for readers, contributors, and the Directus Core team.

> That said.... its nice to be able to break the rules sometimes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That said.... it's nice to be able to break the rules sometimes.
```

a recipe is safe and practical for your project.

:::

:::warning Attention Contributors

Your **Explanation** should be roughly 1-5 paragraphs. If you feel it _needs_ to be longer:

- You might have _multiple separate recipes_, in which case you should separate them.
- You may be re-explaining things already in the docs, in which case you can use links.

:::

:::tip

The next two sections show you how to submit your own recipe. If you're unsure how to do something in Directus, you can
[open an issue](https://github.com/directus/docs/issues) in the docs repo to make a recipe request!

:::

## The Recipe

:::tip Requirements

To submit recipes, you'll need to fork the docs repo. For details, see our guide on
[running locally](/contributing/running-locally.html).

:::

<!--
<video autoplay playsinline muted loop controls>
	<source src="" type="video/mp4" />
</video>
-->

### Create an Issue

First, we need to confirm your recipe is a viable candidate.

If the cookbook was filled with dozens of recipes showing how to do the exact same thing, it would be a cumbersome
developer experience. Additionally, one's recipe might actually be an inefficient or dangerous way to handle something.

> To help avoid these types of issues, we have all potential contributors follow these steps.

Reviewer: No, and I think it reads better.
